Add comprehensive ASP.NET Core release notes for .NET 10 Preview 7 (#10023)
dotnet/core: release-notes/10.0/preview/preview7/aspnetcore.md

Reviewer: Add a feature section for https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/35861. Only include details that are user facing. Don't include implementation details.

Reviewer: Add a feature section for https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/62673. It can be brief.

Reviewer: Add a feature section for https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/62549. Only include details that are user facing. Don't include implementation details.

Reviewer: Include a feature section for https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/62078. Only include details that are user facing. Don't include implementation details.

Reviewer: Include a feature section for https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/62754. Only include details that are user facing. Don't include implementation details.

Reviewer: Include a feature section for https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/62751. Only include details that are user facing. Don't include implementation details.

Reviewer: Include a feature section for https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/62629. Only include details that are user facing. Don't include implementation details.

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthentication()
    .AddCookie(options =>
    {
        options.Events.OnRedirectToLogin = context =>
        {
            context.Response.Redirect(context.RedirectUri);
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        };

        options.Events.OnRedirectToAccessDenied = context =>
        {
            context.Response.Redirect(context.RedirectUri);
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        };
    });
```

For more information about this breaking change, see https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/525

## Passkey authentication improvements

APIs for passkey authentication in ASP.NET Core Identity have been updated and simplified, and now resemble what we expect to ship in .NET 10 GA.

### Getting started with passkeys

**For new applications:** The Blazor Web App project template now includes passkey functionality out of the box. Create a new Blazor app with passkey support using:

```sh
dotnet new blazor -au Individual
```

**For existing applications:** Please refer to the [official docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/authentication/identity) for guidance on upgrading existing apps to utilize passkeys.

> ## Support for the .localhost Top-Level Domain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Support for the .localhost top-level domain
```

{
    var span = reader.HasValueSequence ? reader.ValueSequence.ToArray() : reader.ValueSpan;
    // previous code
}
```

Or the more complicated (but performant) fix which would involve having a separate code path for the `ReadOnlySequence` handling:

```csharp
public override T? Read(ref Utf8JsonReader reader, Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)
{
    if (reader.HasValueSequence)
    {
        reader.ValueSequence;
        // ReadOnlySequence optimized path
    }
    else
    {
        reader.ValueSpan;
        // ReadOnlySpan optimized path
    }
}
```

## OpenAPI improvements

### Upgrade Microsoft.OpenApi to 2.0.0

The OpenAPI.NET library used in ASP.NET Core OpenAPI document generation has been upgraded to v2.0.0 (GA). With the update to the GA version of this package, no further breaking changes are expected in the OpenAPI document generation.

### Enhance validation for classes and records

Users can now use validation attributes on both classes and records, with consistent code generation and validation behavior. This enhances flexibility when designing models using records in ASP.NET Core applications.

> **Community contribution: Thanks to [@marcominerva](https://github.com/marcominerva)**

Reviewer: I think this should be in its own feature section. This improvement isn't really about OpenAPI.

- [JamesNK](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3AJamesNK)
- [javiercn](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Ajaviercn)
- [ladeak](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Aladeak)
- [MackinnonBuck](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3AMackinnonBuck)
- [maraf](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Amaraf)
- [marcominerva](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Amarcominerva)
- [oroztocil](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Aoroztocil)
- [pavelsavara](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Apavelsavara)
- [sander1095](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Asander1095)

> - [wtgodbe](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Awtgodbe)

Reviewer: Remove all Microsoft contributors. Only list external contributors.

{
    if (reader.HasValueSequence)
    {
        reader.ValueSequence;
        // ReadOnlySequence optimized path
    }
    else
    {
        reader.ValueSpan;
        // ReadOnlySpan optimized path
    }
}
```

## Enhanced validation for classes and records

Users can now use validation attributes on both classes and records, with consistent code generation and validation behavior. This enhances flexibility when designing models using records in ASP.NET Core applications.

**Community contribution: Thanks to [@marcominerva](https://github.com/marcominerva)**

## Blazor component improvements

### Resource preloader component renamed

The Blazor component for rendering preloading links has been renamed from `LinkPreload` to `ResourcePreloader` based on API review feedback.

### Updated API names for Blazor state persistence

The new Blazor state persistence APIs have been updated:

- Renamed JavaScript APIs: `Blazor.pause()` → `Blazor.pauseCircuit()` and `Blazor.resume()` → `Blazor.resumeCircuit()`
- Renamed C# attribute: `SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentStateAttribute` → `PersistentStateAttribute`

### Enhanced NotFound support

> Added support for `NotFound` in applications without Blazor's `Router`. Applications that implement their custom router can now use `NavigationManager.NotFound()`. The implementation also simplifies 404 handling with the default `Router` by making the `NotFound` fragment obsolete.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Custom Blazor routers can now support `NavigationManager.NotFound()` by subscribing to the `NavigationManager.OnNotFound` event:

```csharp
private void OnNotFoundEvent(object sender, NotFoundEventArgs e)
{
     // Only execute the logic if HTTP response has started,
    // because setting args' Path blocks re-execution
    if (_httpContext?.Response.HasStarted == false)
    {
        return;
    }

    var type = typeof(CustomNotFoundPage);
    var routeAttributes = type.GetCustomAttributes(typeof(RouteAttribute), inherit: true);
    if (routeAttributes.Length == 0)
    {
        throw new InvalidOperationException($"The type {type.FullName} " +
            $"does not have a {typeof(RouteAttribute).FullName} applied to it.");
    }

    var routeAttribute = (RouteAttribute)routeAttributes[0];
    if (routeAttribute.Template != null)
    {
        e.Path = routeAttribute.Template;
    }
}
````

To fix `JsonConverter` implementations, there is the quick fix which allocates an array from the `ReadOnlySequence`:

```csharp
public override T? Read(ref Utf8JsonReader reader, Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)
{
    var span = reader.HasValueSequence ? reader.ValueSequence.ToArray() : reader.ValueSpan;
    // previous code
}
```

Or the more complicated (but performant) fix which would involve having a separate code path for the `ReadOnlySequence` handling:

```csharp
public override T? Read(ref Utf8JsonReader reader, Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)
{
    if (reader.HasValueSequence)
    {
        reader.ValueSequence;
        // ReadOnlySequence optimized path
    }
    else
    {
        reader.ValueSpan;
        // ReadOnlySpan optimized path
    }
}
```

## Enhanced validation for classes and records

Users can now use validation attributes on both classes and records, with consistent code generation and validation behavior. This enhances flexibility when designing models using records in ASP.NET Core applications.

**Community contribution: Thanks to [@marcominerva](https://github.com/marcominerva)**

> ## Blazor component improvements

Reviewer: Update feature summary list to match this new heading:

```suggestion
## Blazor improvements
```

### Resource preloader component renamed

> The Blazor component for rendering preloading links has been renamed from `LinkPreload` to `ResourcePreloader` based on API review feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Blazor component for rendering preloading links has been renamed from `LinkPreload` to `ResourcePreloader`.
```

> ### API review feedback implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Updated API names for Blazor state persistence
```

> Blazor APIs have been updated to implement API review feedback, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Blazor state persistence APIs have been updated:
```

- Renamed JavaScript APIs: `Blazor.pause()` → `Blazor.pauseCircuit()` and `Blazor.resume()` → `Blazor.resumeCircuit()`
- Renamed C# attribute: `SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentStateAttribute` → `PersistentStateAttribute`

> - Updated related class names for consistency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Enhanced NotFound support

Added support for `NotFound` in applications without Blazor's `Router`. Applications that implement their custom router can now use `NavigationManager.NotFound()`. The implementation also simplifies 404 handling with the default `Router` by making the `NotFound` fragment obsolete.

> ### Diagnostic metrics and traces improvements

Reviewer: Provide a table of the old and new metric and trace names so that users can upgrade.

Updated Blazor diagnostic metrics and traces to follow OpenTelemetry naming conventions:

- Split `aspnetcore.components.render_diff` into separate duration and size metrics
- Renamed navigation and event handler metrics for consistency with trace names
- Updated trace names to follow OpenTelemetry standards

### WebAssembly host builder improvements

Enhanced the `WebAssemblyHostBuilder` with customizable service provider options. This improvement helps prevent circular dependency issues in Blazor WebAssembly apps by providing validation errors at build time instead of runtime hangs.

```csharp
// Simple configuration
builder.UseDefaultServiceProvider(options => 
{
    options.ValidateOnBuild = true;
});

// Environment-aware configuration  
builder.UseDefaultServiceProvider((env, options) =>
{
    options.ValidateOnBuild = env.IsDevelopment();
});
```

> ## Identity metrics
> 
> ASP.NET Core Identity now includes built-in metrics for better observability and monitoring of authentication and user management operations.
> 

Reviewer: We're going to wait to document the Identity metrics in RC1.

```suggestion
```

This setting is useful when you know an exception is transient, or has been handled by the exception handler middleware, and don't want the error logs written to your observability platform.

Additionally, the middleware's default behavior has changed: it no longer writes exception diagnostics for exceptions handled by `IExceptionHandler`. Based on user feedback, logging handled exceptions at the error level was often undesirable when `IExceptionHandler.TryHandleAsync` returned `true`.

You can revert to the previous behavior by configuring `SuppressDiagnosticsCallback`:

```csharp
app.UseExceptionHandler(new ExceptionHandlerOptions
{
    SuppressDiagnosticsCallback = context => false;
});
```

For more information about this breaking change, see https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/524.

## Avoid cookie login redirects for known API endpoints

> By default, unauthenticated and unauthorized requests made to known API endpoints protected by cookie authentication now result in 401 and 403 responses rather than redirecting to a login or access denied URI.
> 
> This change was [highly requested](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/9039), because redirecting unauthenticated requests to a login page doesn't usually make sense for API endpoints which typically rely on 401 and 403 status codes rather than HTML redirects to communicate auth failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, unauthenticated and unauthorized requests made to known API endpoints protected by cookie authentication now result in 401 and 403 responses rather than redirecting to a login or access denied URI. Redirecting unauthenticated requests to a login page doesn't usually make sense for API endpoints which typically rely on 401 and 403 status codes rather than HTML redirects to communicate authorization failures.
```

> Known API [Endpoints](https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/fundamentals/routing) are identified using the new `IApiEndpointMetadata` interface, and metadata implementing the new interface has been added automatically to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API [endpoints](https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/fundamentals/routing) are identified using the new `IApiEndpointMetadata` interface, and metadata implementing the new interface has been added automatically to the following:
```

If you want to prevent this new behavior, and always redirect to the login and access denied URIs for unauthenticated or unauthorized requests regardless of the target endpoint, you can override the `RedirectToLogin` and `RedirectToAccessDenied` as follows:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthentication()
    .AddCookie(options =>
    {
        options.Events.OnRedirectToLogin = context =>
        {
            context.Response.Redirect(context.RedirectUri);
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        };

        options.Events.OnRedirectToAccessDenied = context =>
        {
            context.Response.Redirect(context.RedirectUri);
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        };
    });
```

For more information about this breaking change, see https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/525

## Passkey authentication improvements

APIs for passkey authentication in ASP.NET Core Identity have been updated and simplified, and now resemble what we expect to ship in .NET 10 GA.

> ### Getting started with passkeys

Reviewer: Add content to this section describing the specific API changes made in https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pull/62841 to help users upgrading from .NET 10 Preview 6. Focus only on public user facing changes, not internal implementation details.

```
$ dotnet new web -n MyApp --localhost-tld
The template "ASP.NET Core Empty" was created successfully.

Processing post-creation actions...
Restoring D:\src\MyApp\MyApp.csproj:
Restore succeeded.

$ cd .\MyApp\
$ dotnet run --launch-profile https
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[14]
      Now listening on: https://myapp.dev.localhost:7099
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[14]
      Now listening on: https://localhost:7099/
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[14]
      Now listening on: http://myapp.dev.localhost:5036
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[14]
      Now listening on: http://localhost:5036/
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[0]
      Application started. Press Ctrl+C to shut down.
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[0]
      Hosting environment: Development
info: Microsoft.Hosting.Lifetime[0]
      Content root path: D:\src\local\10.0.1xx\MyApp
```

> ## JSON+PipeReader deserialization support

Reviewer: Replace JSON+PipeReader with prose here are throughout this doc.

```suggestion
## Use PipeReader support in System.Text.Json
```

MVC, Minimal APIs, and the `HttpRequestJsonExtensions.ReadFromJsonAsync` methods have all been updated to use the new Json+PipeReader support without requiring any code changes from applications.

For the majority of applications this should have no impact on behavior. However, if the application is using a custom `JsonConverter`, there is a chance that the converter doesn't handle [Utf8JsonReader.HasValueSequence](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.text.json.utf8jsonreader.hasvaluesequence) correctly. This can result in missing data and errors like `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` when deserializing.

> The quick workaround (especially if you don't own the custom `JsonConverter` being used) is to set the `"Microsoft.AspNetCore.UseStreamBasedJsonParsing"` [AppContext](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.appcontext?view=net-9.0) switch to `"true"`. This should be a temporary workaround and the `JsonConverter`(s) should be updated to support `HasValueSequence`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quick workaround (especially if you don't own the custom `JsonConverter` being used) is to set the `"Microsoft.AspNetCore.UseStreamBasedJsonParsing"` [AppContext](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.appcontext) switch to `true`. This should be a temporary workaround and the `JsonConverter`(s) should be updated to support `HasValueSequence`.
```

> To fix `JsonConverter` implementations, there is the quick fix which allocates an array from the `ReadOnlySequence` and would look something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix `JsonConverter` implementations, there is the quick fix which allocates an array from the `ReadOnlySequence`:
```

{
    if (reader.HasValueSequence)
    {
        reader.ValueSequence;
        // ReadOnlySequence optimized path
    }
    else
    {
        reader.ValueSpan;
        // ReadOnlySpan optimized path
    }
}
```

## Enhanced validation for classes and records

Users can now use validation attributes on both classes and records, with consistent code generation and validation behavior. This enhances flexibility when designing models using records in ASP.NET Core applications.

**Community contribution: Thanks to [@marcominerva](https://github.com/marcominerva)**

## Blazor component improvements

### Resource preloader component renamed

The Blazor component for rendering preloading links has been renamed from `LinkPreload` to `ResourcePreloader` based on API review feedback.

### Updated API names for Blazor state persistence

The new Blazor state persistence APIs have been updated:

- Renamed JavaScript APIs: `Blazor.pause()` → `Blazor.pauseCircuit()` and `Blazor.resume()` → `Blazor.resumeCircuit()`
- Renamed C# attribute: `SupplyParameterFromPersistentComponentStateAttribute` → `PersistentStateAttribute`

> ### Enhanced NotFound support

Reviewer: Update the feature summary list to match the new heading.

Custom Blazor routers can now support `NavigationManager.NotFound()` by subscribing to the `NavigationManager.OnNotFound` event:

```csharp
private void OnNotFoundEvent(object sender, NotFoundEventArgs e)
{
     // Only execute the logic if HTTP response has started,
    // because setting args' Path blocks re-execution
    if (_httpContext?.Response.HasStarted == false)
    {
        return;
    }

    var type = typeof(CustomNotFoundPage);
    var routeAttributes = type.GetCustomAttributes(typeof(RouteAttribute), inherit: true);
    if (routeAttributes.Length == 0)
    {
        throw new InvalidOperationException($"The type {type.FullName} " +
            $"does not have a {typeof(RouteAttribute).FullName} applied to it.");
    }

    var routeAttribute = (RouteAttribute)routeAttributes[0];
    if (routeAttribute.Template != null)
    {
        e.Path = routeAttribute.Template;
    }
}
```

> ### Diagnostic metrics and traces improvements
> 
> Updated Blazor diagnostic metrics and traces to follow OpenTelemetry naming conventions:
> 
> | Old Name | New Name |
> |----------|----------|
> | `aspnetcore.components.render_diff` | `aspnetcore.components.render_diff.duration` and `aspnetcore.components.render_diff.size` |
> | `blazor.navigation` | `aspnetcore.components.navigation` |
> | `blazor.event_handler` | `aspnetcore.components.event_handler` |
> 
> Additional improvements:
> - Split `aspnetcore.components.render_diff` into separate duration and size metrics
> - Renamed navigation and event handler metrics for consistency with trace names
> - Updated trace names to follow OpenTelemetry standards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Updated metric names

The Blazor diagnostic metrics have been updated to follow OpenTelemetry naming conventions:

| Old | New |
|----------|----------|
| `aspnetcore.components.render_diff` | Split into `aspnetcore.components.render_diff.duration` and `aspnetcore.components.render_diff.size` |
| `aspnetcore.components.navigation` | `aspnetcore.components.navigate` |
| `aspnetcore.components.event_handler` | `aspnetcore.components.handle_event.duration` |
| `aspnetcore.components.update_parameters` | `aspnetcore.components.update_parameters.duration`
```

### Fix ProducesResponseType Description for Minimal APIs

The Description property for the `ProducesResponseType` attribute is now correctly set in Minimal APIs even when the attribute type and the inferred return type are not an exact match.

Thank you [@sander1095](https://github.com/sander1095) for this contribution!

### Correct metadata type for formdata enum parameters

The metadata type for formdata enum parameters in MVC controller actions has been updated to use the actual enum type instead of string.

Thank you [@ascott18](https://github.com/ascott18) for this contribution!

### Unify handling of documentation IDs in OpenAPI XML comment generator

XML documentation comments from referenced assemblies are now correctly merged if their documentation IDs included return type suffixes. As a result, all valid XML comments are now reliably included in generated OpenAPI documentation, improving doc accuracy and completeness for APIs using referenced assemblies.

## Contributors

Thank you contributors! ❤️

> - [ascott18](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Aascott18)
> - [ladeak](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Aladeak)
> - [marcominerva](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Amarcominerva)
> - [oroztocil](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Aoroztocil)
> - [sander1095](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Asander1095)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [@martincostello](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Amartincostello)
- [@benhopkinstech](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Abenhopkinstech)
- [@timdeschryver](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Atimdeschryver)
- [@sander1095](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Asander1095)
- [@marcominerva](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Amarcominerva)
- [@dariatiurina](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Adariatiurina)
- [@jashook](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Ajashook)
- [@shethaadit](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Ashethaadit)
- [@ladeak](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Aladeak)
- [@ascott18](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+milestone%3A10.0-preview7+author%3Aascott18)
```

- Endpoints using `TypedResults` return types
- SignalR endpoints

When `IApiEndpointMetadata` is present, the cookie authentication handler now returns appropriate HTTP status codes (401 for unauthenticated requests, 403 for forbidden requests) instead of redirecting.

If you want to prevent this new behavior and always redirect to the login and access denied URIs for unauthenticated or unauthorized requests regardless of the target endpoint, you can override the `RedirectToLogin` and `RedirectToAccessDenied` events as follows:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthentication()
    .AddCookie(options =>
    {
        options.Events.OnRedirectToLogin = context =>
        {
            context.Response.Redirect(context.RedirectUri);
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        };

        options.Events.OnRedirectToAccessDenied = context =>
        {
            context.Response.Redirect(context.RedirectUri);
            return Task.CompletedTask;
        };
    });
```

For more information about this breaking change, see https://github.com/aspnet/Announcements/issues/525

## Passkey authentication improvements

> APIs for passkey authentication in ASP.NET Core Identity have been updated and simplified, and now resemble what we expect to ship in .NET 10 GA.
> 
> ### Passkey API changes
> 
> The following API changes were made in Preview 7 to simplify passkey authentication:
> 
> - `IdentityApiEndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapIdentityApi<TUser>()` now includes passkey endpoints by default
> - Simplified registration flow with improved error handling
> - Updated JavaScript interop APIs for better browser compatibility
> - Streamlined credential verification process
> 
> These changes improve the developer experience when implementing passkey authentication and align the APIs with the expected final release in .NET 10 GA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIs for passkey authentication in ASP.NET Core Identity have been updated and simplified. The Blazor Identity UI in the Blazor Web App project template has been updated accordingly.
```
